---
title: Notes | DNS
author: Zeropio
date: 2022-07-15
categories: [Notes, System]
tags: [dns]
permalink: /notes/system/dns
---

# DNS 

The **Domain Name System** (**DNS**) translates domain names to the numerical IP addresses. DNS is mostly **UDP/53**, but DNS will rely on **TCP/53** more heavily as time progresses. 
```console
zero@pio$ nmap -p 53 -Pn -sVC <TARGET>
```

## AXFR Zone Transfer 

A DNS zone is a portion of the DNS namespace that a specific organization or administrator manages. Since DNS comprises multiple DNS zones, DNS servers utilize DNS zone transfers to copy a portion of their database to another DNS server. An attacker could leverage this DNS zone transfer vulnerability to learn more about the target organization's DNS namespace, increasing the attack surface. For exploitation, we can use the dig utility with DNS query type AXFR option to dump the entire DNS namespaces from a vulnerable DNS server:
```console
zero@pio$ dig AXFR <DOMAIN> @<TARGET>
```

[Fierce](https://github.com/mschwager/fierce) could help us enumerating all DNS servers.
```console
zero@pio$ fierce --domain <DOMAIN>
```

## Domain Takeovers 

**Domain takeover** is registering a non-existent domain name to gain control over another domain. If attackers find an expired domain, they can claim that domain to perform further attacks such as hosting malicious content on a website or sending a phishing email leveraging the claimed domain. Domain takeover is also possible with subdomains called **subdomain takeover**. A DNS's canonical name (**CNAME**) record is used to map different domains to a parent domain. Usually enterprises create a subdomain and make it point to other services.  For example, if **subdomain.example.com** was pointing to a GitHub page and the user decided to delete their GitHub page, an attacker can now create a GitHub page, add a CNAME file containing **subdomain.example.com**, and claim **subdomain.example.com**. Another example:
```
sub.target.com.   60   IN   CNAME   anotherdomain.com
```

The domain name (`sub.target.com`) uses a CNAME record to another domain (`anotherdomain.com`). Suppose the **anotherdomain.com** expires and is available for anyone to claim the domain since the **target.com**'s DNS server has the CNAME record. In that case, anyone who registers **anotherdomain.com** will have complete control over **sub.target.com** until the DNS record is updated.

## Subdomain Enumeration

Before performing a subdomain takeover, we should enumerate subdomains for a target domain using tools like [Subfinder](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/subfinder) (more below):
```console
zero@pio$ ./subfinder -d <TARGET> -v
```

Other tool is [SubBrute](https://github.com/TheRook/subbrute), to use self-defined resolvers and perform pure DNS brute-forcing attacks during internal penetration tests on hosts that do not have Internet access:
```console
zero@pio$ ./subbrute <DOMAIN> -s ./names.txt -r ./resolvers.txt
```

> **Gobuster** doesn't work here, because DNS zone doesn't return an IP.
{: .prompt-alert}

Using the `nslookup` or `host` command, we can enumerate the CNAME records for those subdomains.
```console
zero@pio$ host <SUBDOMAIN>
```

If we see the subdomain is pointing to another domain, but that domain doesn't exit (yet), we can perform a subdomain takeover. We can help us with [Can I take over XYZ?](https://github.com/EdOverflow/can-i-take-over-xyz).

## DNS Spoofing 

**DNS spoofing** is also referred to as **DNS Cache Poisoning**. Example attack paths for the DNS Cache Poisoning are as follows:
- An attacker could intercept the communication between a user and a DNS server to route the user to a fraudulent destination instead of a legitimate one by performing a Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) attack.
- Exploiting a vulnerability found in a DNS server could yield control over the server by an attacker to modify the DNS records.

### Local 

From a local network perspective, an attacker can also perform DNS Cache Poisoning using MITM tools like [Ettercap](https://www.ettercap-project.org/) or [Bettercap](https://www.bettercap.org/). To exploit the DNS cache poisoning via Ettercap, we should first edit the `/etc/ettercap/etter.dns`{: .filepath} file to map the target domain name that they want to spoof and the attacker's IP address that they want to redirect a user to:
```console
zero@pio$ cat /etc/ettercap/etter.dns

<DOMAIN>     A   <TARGET>
*.<DOMAIN>   A   <TARGET>
```

Next, start the **Ettercap** tool and scan for live hosts within the network by navigating to `Hosts > Scan for Hosts`. Once completed, add the target IP address to Target1 and add a default gateway IP to Target2. Activate `dns_spoof` attack by navigating to `Plugins > Manage Plugins`. This sends the target machine with fake DNS responses that will resolve <DOMAIN> to IP address <TARGET>.

After a successful DNS spoof attack, if a victim user coming from the target machine visits the <DOMAIN> domain on a web browser, they will be redirected to a Fake page that is hosted on IP address <TARGET>. In addition, a ping coming from the target IP  should be resolved too.

---

# Resources 

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| [Fierce](https://github.com/mschwager/fierce) | A DNS reconnaissance tool for locating non-contiguous IP space |
| [Subfinder](https://github.com/projectdiscovery/subfinder) | is a subdomain discovery tool that discovers valid subdomains for websites (passive) |
| [DNSdumpster](https://dnsdumpster.com/) | is a FREE domain research tool that can discover hosts related to a domain |
| [Sublist3r](https://github.com/aboul3la/Sublist3r) | Fast subdomains enumeration tool for penetration testers |
| [SubBrute](https://github.com/TheRook/subbrute) | A DNS meta-query spider that enumerates DNS records, and subdomains |
| [Can I take over XYZ?](https://github.com/EdOverflow/can-i-take-over-xyz) | list of services and how to claim (sub)domains with dangling DNS records |

