---
title: Index
author: x4sh3s
permalink: /index
pin: true
toc: false
---

Hi there! This is Zeropio. I'm a cybersecurity student who is interested in exploring all kinds of low-level topics. Currently, I'm learning about malware development, reversing, and binary exploitation. I will be sharing some of my projects and research on this platform.

If you'd like to know more about me, please check out my [whoami](/whoami) page.

---

# The Way of Research

This is going to be the main section of my blog, where I want to put the most focus. Here, I'll try to cover different personal research on various topics that I find interesting, particularly related to low-level programming and reverse engineering.

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| [Rust Binaries](/categories/rustversing) | Reversing Rust binaries |

<br>

---

# Zero Sensei

In this section, I'll try to explain some concepts that I found helpful, interesting, or simply wanted to cover. My goal is to provide you with valuable resources for learning and consulting.

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| [The Shellcode Blacksmith](/sensei/shellcode-blacksmith) | Quick overview for shellcoding |

<br>

---

# The Low-Level Ronin

This will be an addition to the research section. It won't be a direct research component, as many blog posts here may consist of compiling information from existing posts or adding a bit of value to already existing blogs.

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| **OS Internals** |
| [OS Development](/categories/osdev) | Development of a kernel in Rust |


<br>

---

# Game Hacking For Fun And Profit

WIP...

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| Coming... | ...soon! |

<br>

---

# The Malware Forge

Here, I will attempt to cover a range of topics, from researching existing malware to developing my own. While this section won't be my primary focus, there may be occasional content related to it from time to time.

| **Link**   | **Description**    |
|--------------- | --------------- |
| [Development](/categories/development) | Development of malware |
| [Triages](/categories/triage/) | Triages for different malware samples |

